

--- PAGE 1 ---
Deep Graph Contrastive Representation Learning
Yanqiao Zhu1,2∗ Yichen Xu3∗,† Feng Yu1,2 Qiang Liu4,5 Shu Wu1,2 Liang Wang1,2
1 Center for Research on Intelligent Perception and Computing
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
2 School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
3 School of Computer Science, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
4 RealAI 5 Tsinghua University
yanqiao.zhu@cripac.ia.ac.cn, linyxus@bupt.edu.cn
{feng.yu, shu.wu, wangliang}@nlpr.ia.ac.cn, qiang.liu@realai.ai
Abstract
Graph representation learning nowadays becomes fundamental in analyzing graph-
structured data. Inspired by recent success of contrastive methods, in this paper,
we propose a novel framework for unsupervised graph representation learning
by leveraging a contrastive objective at the node level. Speciﬁcally, we generate
two graph views by corruption and learn node representations by maximizing the
agreement of node representations in these two views. To provide diverse node
contexts for the contrastive objective, we propose a hybrid scheme for generating
graph views on both structure and attribute levels. Besides, we provide theoretical
justiﬁcation behind our motivation from two perspectives, mutual information and
the classical triplet loss. We perform empirical experiments on both transductive
and inductive learning tasks using a variety of real-world datasets. Experimental ex-
periments demonstrate that despite its simplicity, our proposed method consistently
outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods by large margins. Moreover, our
unsupervised method even surpasses its supervised counterparts on transductive
tasks, demonstrating its great potential in real-world applications.
1 Introduction
Over the past few years, graph representation learning has emerged as a powerful strategy for
analyzing graph-structured data. Graph representation learning aims to learn an encoding function
that transforms nodes to low-dimensional dense embeddings that preserve graph attributive and
structural features. Traditional unsupervised graph representation learning approaches, such as
DeepWalk [1] and node2vec [2], follow a contrastive framework originated in the skip-gram model
[3]. Speciﬁcally, they ﬁrst sample short random walks and then enforce neighboring nodes on the
same walk to share similar embeddings by contrasting them with other nodes. However, DeepWalk-
based methods can be seen as reconstructing the graph proximity matrix, such as high-order adjacent
matrix [4], which excessively emphasize proximity information deﬁned on the network structure [5].
Recently, graph representation learning using Graph Neural Networks (GNN) has received consid-
erable attention. Along with its prosperous development, however, there is an increasing concern
over the label availability when training the model. Nevertheless, existing GNN models are mostly
established in a supervised manner [6–8], which require abundant labeled nodes for training. Albeit
with some attempts connecting previous unsupervised objectives (i.e., matrix reconstruction) to GNN
models [9, 10], these methods still heavily rely on the preset graph proximity matrix.
∗The ﬁrst two authors contributed equally to this work.
†This work is done during his internship at CRIPAC, CASIA.
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2006.04131v2  [cs.LG]  13 Jul 2020


--- PAGE 2 ---
Positive pairs
Negative pairs (intra-view)
Negative pairs (inter-view)
Anchor
Original features
Corrupted features
Figure 1: Our proposed deep GRAph Contrastive rEpresentation learning (GRACE) model.
Instead of optimizing the reconstruction objective, visual representation learning leads to revitalization
of the classical information maximization (InfoMax) principle [11]. A series of contrastive learning
methods have been proposed so far [12–17], which seek to maximize the Mutual Information (MI)
between the input (i.e., images) and its representations (i.e., image embeddings) by contrasting
positive pairs with negative-sampled counterparts. Inspired by previous success of the Deep InfoMax
(DIM) method [15] in visual representation learning, Deep Graph InfoMax (DGI) [18] proposes an
alternative objective based on MI maximization in the graph domain. DGI ﬁrstly employs GNN to
learn node embeddings and obtains a global summary embedding (i.e., the graph embedding), via a
readout function. The objective used in DGI is then to maximize the MI between node embeddings
and the graph embedding by discriminating nodes in the original graph from nodes in a corrupted
graph.
However, we argue that the local-global MI maximization framework in DGI is still in its infancy. Its
objective is proved to be equivalent to maximizing the MI between input node features and high-level
node embeddings under some conditions. Speciﬁcally, to implement the InfoMax objective, DGI
requires an injective readout function to produce the global graph embedding, where the injective
property is too restrictive to fulﬁll. For the mean-pooling readout function employed in DGI, it is not
guaranteed that the graph embedding can distill useful information from nodes, as it is insufﬁcient to
preserve distinctive features from node-level embeddings. Moreover, DGI proposes to use feature
shufﬂing to generate corrupted views of graphs. Nevertheless, this scheme considers corrupting
node features at a coarse-grained level when generating negative node samples. When the feature
matrix is sparse, performing feature shufﬂing only is insufﬁcient to generate different neighborhoods
(i.e., contexts) for nodes in the corrupted graph, leading to difﬁculty in learning of the contrastive
objective.
In this paper, we introduce a simple yet powerful contrastive framework for unsupervised graph
representation learning (Figure 1), which we refer to as deep GRAph Contrastive rEpresentation
learning (GRACE)3, motivated by a traditional self-organizing network [19] and its recent renaissance
in visual representation learning [17]. Rather than contrasting node-level embeddings to global ones,
we primarily focus on contrasting embeddings at the node level and our work makes no assumptions
on injective readout functions for generating the graph embedding. In GRACE, we ﬁrst generate
two correlated graph views by randomly performing corruption. Then, we train the model using a
contrastive loss to maximize the agreement between node embeddings in these two views. Unlike
visual data, where abundant image transformation techniques are available, how to perform corruption
to generate views for graphs is still an open problem. In our work, we jointly consider corruption at
both topology and node attribute levels, namely removing edges and masking features, to provide
diverse contexts for nodes in different views, so as to boost optimization of the contrastive objective.
Last, we provide theoretical analysis that reveals the connections from our contrastive objective to
mutual information and the classical triplet loss.
Our contribution is summarized as follows. Firstly, we propose a general contrastive framework for
unsupervised graph representation learning. The proposed GRACE framework simpliﬁes previous
work and works by maximizing the agreement of node embeddings between two graph views.
Secondly, we propose two speciﬁc schemes, removing edges and masking features, to generate
views of graphs. Finally, we conduct comprehensive empirical studies using six popular public
benchmark datasets on both transductive and inductive node classiﬁcation under the commonly-used
3Code is made publicly available at https://github.com/CRIPAC-DIG/GRACE.
2


--- PAGE 3 ---
linear evaluation protocol. GRACE consistently outperforms existing methods and our unsupervised
method even surpasses its supervised counterparts on transductive tasks, demonstrating its great
potential in real-world applications.
2 Related Work
Contrastive learning of visual representations. Being popular in self-supervised visual repre-
sentation learning, contrastive methods aim to learn discriminative representations by contrasting
positive and negative samples. For visual data, negative samples can be generated using image
augmentation techniques such as cropping, rotation [20], color distortion [21], etc. Existing work
[12–14] employs a memory bank for storing negative samples. Other work [15–17] explores in-batch
negative samples. For an image patch as the anchor, these methods usually ﬁnd a global summary
vector [22, 15] or patches in neighboring views [23, 24] as the positive sample, and contrast them
with negative-sampled counterparts, such as patches of other images within the same batch [22].
Theoretical analysis sheds light on the reasons behind their success [25]. Objectives used in these
methods can be seen as maximizing the lower bounds of MI between input features and their
representations [11]. However, recent work [26] reveals that downstream performance in evaluating
the quality of representations may strongly depend on the bias that is encoded not only in the
convolutional architectures but also in the speciﬁc estimator of the InfoMax objective.
Graph representation learning. Many traditional methods on unsupervised graph representation
learning employ the contrastive paradigm as well [1, 2, 9, 27]. Prior work on unsupervised graph
representation learning focuses on local contrastive patterns, which forces neighboring nodes to
have similar embeddings. Positive samples under this circumstance are nodes appearing in the same
random walk [1, 2]. For example, the pioneering work DeepWalk [1] models probabilities of node
co-occurrence pairs using noise-contrastive estimation [28]. These random-walk-based methods are
proved to be equivalent to factorizing some forms of graph proximity (e.g., transformation of the
adjacent matrix) [4], which overly emphasize on the structural information encoded in these graph
proximities and also face severe scaling problem with large-scale datasets. Also, these methods are
known to be error-prone with inappropriate hyperparameter tuning [1, 2].
Recent work on graph neural networks (GNN) employs more powerful graph convolutional encoders
over conventional methods. Among them, considerable literature has grown up around the theme
of supervised GNN [ 6–8, 29], which requires labeled datasets that may not be accessible in real-
world applications. Along the other line of development, unsupervised GNNs receive little attention.
Representative methods include GraphSAGE [10], which incorporates DeepWalk-like objectives as
well. Recent work DGI [18] marries the power of GNN and contrastive learning, which focuses on
maximizing MI between global graph embeddings and local node embeddings. However, it is hard to
fulﬁll the injective requirement of the graph readout function such that the graph embedding may be
deteriorated. In contrast to DGI, our work does not rely on an explicit graph embedding. Instead, we
focus on maximizing the agreement of node embeddings across two corrupted views of the graph.
3 Deep Graph Contrastive Representation Learning
In this section, we present our proposed GRACE framework in detail, starting with the overall
framework of contrastive objectives, followed by speciﬁc graph view generation methods. At the end
of this section, we provide theoretical justiﬁcation behind our framework from two perspectives, i.e.,
connection to the InfoMax principle and the classical triplet loss.
3.1 Preliminaries
In unsupervised graph representation learning, let G = (V,E) denote a graph, where V =
{v1,v 2,··· ,vN},E ⊆V×V represent the node set and the edge set respectively. We denote
the feature matrix and the adjacency matrix as X∈ RN×F and A∈{ 0, 1}N×N , where xi∈ RF
is the feature ofvi, and Aij = 1 iff (vi,vj)∈E . There is no given class information of nodes inG
during training. Our objective is to learn a GNN encoder f (X, A)∈ RN×F ′
receiving the graph
features and structure as input, that produces node embeddings in low dimensionality, i.e.,F′≪F .
3


--- PAGE 4 ---
We denote H = f (X, A) as the learned representations of nodes, where hi is the embedding of
nodevi. These representations can be used in downstream tasks, such as node classiﬁcation.
3.2 Contrastive Learning of Node Representations
3.2.1 The Contrastive Learning Framework
Contrary to previous work that learns representations by utilizing local-global relationships, in
GRACE, we learn embeddings by directly maximizing node-level agreement between embeddings.
To be speciﬁc, we ﬁrst generate two graph views by randomly corrupting the original graph. Then,
we employ a contrastive objective that enforces the encoded embeddings of each node in the two
different views agree with each other and can be distinguished from embeddings of other nodes.
In our GRACE model, at each iteration, we generate two graph views, denoted as˜G 1 and˜G 2, and
denote node embeddings in the two generated views as U = f (˜X 1,˜A 1) and V = f (˜X 2,˜A 2),
where ˜X∗ and ˜A∗ are the feature matrices and adjacent matrices of the views. Details on the
generation of graph views will be discussed later in Section 3.2.2.
Then, we employ a contrastive objective (i.e., a discriminator) that distinguishes the embeddings
of the same node in these two different views from other node embeddings. For any node vi, its
embedding generated in one view, ui, is treated as the anchor, the embedding of it generated in the
other view, vi, forms the positive sample, and embeddings of nodes other thanvi in the two views
are naturally regarded as negative samples. Formally, we deﬁne the criticθ(u, v) = s(g(u),g (v)),
wheres is the cosine similarity andg is a non-linear projection to enhance the expression power of
the critic [17, 26]. The projectiong is implemented with a two-layer multilayer perceptron (MLP).
We deﬁne the pairwise objective for each positive pair (ui, vi) as
ℓ(ui, vi) = log eθ(ui,vi)/τ
eθ(ui,vi)/τ
  
the positive pair
+
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i]eθ(ui,vk)/τ
  
inter-view negative pairs
+
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i]eθ(ui,uk)/τ
  
intra-view negative pairs
, (1)
where 1[k̸=i]∈{ 0, 1} is an indication function that equals to 1 iffk̸= i, and τ is a temperature
parameter. Please note that, in our work, we do not sample negative nodes explicitly. Instead, given a
positive pair, we naturally deﬁne negative samples as all other nodes in the two views. Therefore,
negative samples come from two sources, inter-view or intra-view nodes, corresponding to the second
and the third term in the denominator, respectively. Since two views are symmetric, the loss for
another view is deﬁned similarly forℓ(vi, ui). The overall objective to be maximized is then deﬁned
as the average over all positive pairs, formally given by
J = 1
2N
N∑
i=1
[ℓ(ui, vi) +ℓ(vi, ui)]. (2)
To sum up, at each training epoch, GRACE ﬁrst generates two graph views˜G 1 and˜G 2 of graphG.
Then, we obtain node representations U and V of˜G 1 and˜G 2 using a GNN encoderf. Finally, the
parameters off andg is updated by maximizing the objective in Eq. (2). The learning algorithm is
summarized in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1: GRACE training algorithm
1 forepoch← 1, 2,··· do
2 Generate two graph views˜G 1 and˜G 2 by performing corruption onG
3 Obtain node embeddings U of˜G 1 using the encoderf
4 Obtain node embeddings V of˜G 2 using the encoderf
5 Compute the contrastive objectiveJ with Eq. (2)
6 Update parameters by applying stochastic gradient ascent to maximizeJ
4


--- PAGE 5 ---
3.2.2 Graph View Generation
Generating views is a key component of contrastive learning methods. In the graph domain, different
views of a graph provide different contexts for each node. Considering contrastive approaches that
rely on contrasting between node embeddings in different views, we propose to corrupt the original
graph at both structure and attribute levels, which constructs diverse node contexts for the model to
contrast with. In GRACE, we design two methods for graph corruption, removing edges for topology
and masking features for node attributes. How to perform graph corruption is still an open problem
[18]. It is ﬂexible to adopt other alternative mechanisms of corruption methods in our framework.
Removing edges (RE). We randomly remove a portion of edges in the original graph. Formally,
since we only remove existing edges, we ﬁrst sample a random masking matrix ˜R∈{ 0, 1}N×N ,
whose entry is drawn from a Bernoulli distribution ˜Rij∼B (1−pr) if Aij = 1 for the original
graph and ˜Rij = 0 otherwise. Herepr is the probability of each edge being removed. The resulting
adjacency matrix can be computed as
˜A = A◦˜R, (3)
where (x◦ y)i =xiyi is Hadamard product.
Masking node features (MF). Apart from removing edges, we randomly mask a fraction of
dimensions with zeros in node features. Formally, we ﬁrst sample a random vector ˜m∈{ 0, 1}F
where each dimension of it independently is drawn from a Bernoulli distribution with probability
1−pm, i.e., ˜mi∼B (1−pm),∀i. Then, the generated node features ˜X is computed by
˜X = [x1◦ ˜m; x2◦ ˜m;··· ; xN◦ ˜m]⊤. (4)
Here [·;·] is the concatenation operator.
Please kindly note that although our proposed RE and MF schemes are technically similar to
Dropout [30] and DropEdge [31], our GRACE model and the two referred methods are proposed
for fundamentally different purposes. Dropout is a general technique that randomly masks neurons
during training to prevent over-ﬁtting of large-scale models. In the graph domain, DropEdge is
proposed to prevent over-ﬁtting and alleviate over-smoothing when the GNN architecture is too deep.
However, our GRACE framework randomly applies RE and MF to produce different graph views for
contrastive learning at both graph topology and node feature levels. Moreover, the employed GNN
encoder in GRACE is a rather shallow model, usually consisting of only two or three layers.
In our implementation, we jointly leverage these two methods to generate graph views. The generation
of˜G 1 and˜G 2 are controlled by two hyperparameters pr andpm. To provide different contexts in
the two views, the generation process of the two views uses two different sets of hyperparameters
pr,1,pm,1 andpr,2,pm,2. Experiments demonstrate that our model is not sensitive to the choice of
pr andpm under mild conditions such that the original graph is not overly corrupted, e.g.,pr≤ 0.8
andpm≤ 0.8. We refer readers to the sensitivity analysis presented in Appendix C.1 for empirical
results.
3.3 Theoretical Justiﬁcation
In this section, we provide theoretical justiﬁcation behind our model from two perspectives, i.e., the
mutual information maximization and the triplet loss. Detailed proofs can be found in Appendix D.
Connections to the mutual information. Firstly, we reveal the connection between our loss and
mutual information maximization between node features and the embeddings in the two views, which
has been widely applied in the representation learning literature [13, 15, 25, 26]. MI quantiﬁes the
amount of information obtained about one random variable by observing the other random variable.
Theorem 1. Let Xi ={xk}k∈N (i) be the neighborhood of node vi that collectively maps to its
output embedding, whereN (i) denotes the set of neighbors of nodevi speciﬁed by GNN architectures,
and X be the corresponding random variable with a uniform distributionp(Xi) = 1
N . Given two
random variables U, V∈ RF ′
being the embedding in the two views, with their joint distribution
denoted asp(U, V), our objectiveJ is a lower bound of MI between encoder input X and node
representations in two graph views U, V. Formally,
J≤ I(X; U, V). (5)
5


--- PAGE 6 ---
Proof sketch. We ﬁrst observe that our objectiveJ is a lower bound of the InfoNCE objective [23],
which is deﬁned asINCE(U; V) ≜ E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
∑N
i=1 log eθ(ui,vi )
1
N
∑N
j=1eθ(ui,vj )
]
[25]. According to
[23], the InfoNCE estimator is a lower bound of the true MI. Therefore, the theorem directly follows
from the application of data processing inequality, which states thatI(U; V)≤I(X; U, V).
Remark. From Theorem 1, it reveals that maximizingJ is equivalent to maximizing a lower bound
of the mutual informationI(X; U, V) between input node features and learned node representations.
Counterintuitively, recent work further provides empirical evidence that optimizing a stricter bound
of MI may not lead to better downstream performance on visual representation learning [26], which
highlights the importance of the encoder design. In Appendix C.3, we also compare our objective
with the InfoNCE loss, which is a stricter estimator of MI, to further demonstrate the superiority of
the GRACE model.
Connections to the triplet loss. Alternatively, we may view the optimization problem in Eq. (2)
as a classical triplet loss, commonly used in deep metric learning.
Theorem 2. When the projection function g is the identity function and we measure embedding
similarity by simply taking inner product, i.e.,s(u, v) = u⊤v, and further assuming that positive
pairs are far more aligned than negative pairs, minimizing the pairwise objectiveℓ(ui, vi) coincides
with maximizing the triplet loss, as given in the sequel
−ℓ(ui, vi)∝ 4Nτ +
N∑
j=1
1[j̸=i]
[(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− vj∥2)
+
(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− uj∥2)]
.
(6)
Remark. Theorem 2 draws connection between the objective and the classical triplet loss. In
other words, we may regard the problem in Eq. (2) as learning graph convolutional encoders to
encourage positive samples being further away from negative samples in the embedding space.
Moreover, by viewing the objective from the metric learning perspective, we highlight the importance
of appropriately choosing negative samples, which is often neglected in previous InfoMax-based
methods. Last, the contrastive objective is cheap to optimize since we do not have to generate negative
samples explicitly and all computation can be performed in parallel. In contrast, the triplet loss is
known to be computationally expensive [32].
4 Experiments
In this section, we empirically evaluate the quality of produced node embeddings on node clas-
siﬁcation using six public benchmark datasets. We refer readers of interest to the supplementary
material on details of experiments, including dataset conﬁgurations (Appendix A), implementation
and hyperparameters (Appendix B), and additional experiments (Appendix C).
4.1 Datasets
For comprehensive comparison, we use six widely-used datasets to study the performance of both
transductive and inductive node classiﬁcation. Speciﬁcally, we use three kinds of datasets: (1) citation
networks including Cora, Citeseer, Pubmed, and DBLP [33, 34] for transductive node classiﬁcation,
(2) social networks from Reddit posts for inductive learning on large-scale graphs [ 10], and (3)
biological protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks [35] for inductive node classiﬁcation on multiple
graphs. Details of these datasets can be found in Appendix A.
4.2 Experimental Setup
For every experiment, we follow the linear evaluation scheme as in [18], where each model is ﬁrstly
trained in an unsupervised manner. The resulting embeddings are used to train and test a simpleℓ2-
regularized logistic regression classiﬁer. We train the model for twenty runs and report the averaged
performance on each dataset. Moreover, we measure performance using micro-averaged F1-score
on inductive tasks and accuracy on transductive tasks. Please kindly note that for inductive learning
tasks, tests are conducted on unseen or untrained nodes and graphs, while for transductive learning
tasks, we use the features of all data, but the labels of the test set are masked during training.
6


--- PAGE 7 ---
Transductive learning. In transductive learning tasks, we employ a two-layer GCN [ 6] as the
encoder. Our encoder architecture is formally given by
GCi(X, A) = σ
(
ˆD− 1
2 ˆA ˆD− 1
2 XWi
)
, (7)
f (X, A) = GC 2(GC1(X, A), A). (8)
where ˆA = A + I is the adjacency matrix with self-loops, ˆD =∑
i ˆAi is the degree matrix,σ(·) is
a nonlinear activation function, e.g., ReLU(·) = max(0,·), and Wi is a trainable weight matrix.
We consider the following two categories of representative algorithms as baselines, including (1)
traditional methods DeepWalk [1] and node2vec [2], and (2) deep learning methods GAE, VGAE
[9], and DGI [18]. Furthermore, we report performance obtained using a logistic regression classiﬁer
on raw node features and DeepWalk with embeddings concatenated with input node features. For
direct comparison with supervised counterparts, we also report the performance of two representative
models SGC [29] and GCN [6], where they are trained in an end-to-end fashion.
Inductive learning on large graphs. Considering the large scale of the Reddit data, we closely
follow [18] and employ a three-layer GraphSAGE-GCN [10] with residual connections [36] as the
encoder, which is formulated as
ˆMPi(X, A) = σ([ ˆD−1 ˆAX; X]Wi), (9)
f (X, A) = ˆMP3(ˆMP2(ˆMP1(X, A), A), A). (10)
Here we use the mean-pooling propagation rule, as ˆD−1 averages over node features. Due to the
large scale of Reddit, it cannot ﬁt into GPU memory entirely. Therefore, we apply the subsampling
method proposed in [ 10], where we ﬁrst randomly select a minibatch of nodes, then a subgraph
centered around each selected node is obtained by sampling node neighbors with replacement. To
be speciﬁc, we sample 30, 25, 20 neighbors at the ﬁrst-, second-, and third-hop respectively. For
generating graph views under such sampling-based settings, both RE and MF can be adapted to
sampled subgraphs effortlessly.
Inductive learning on multiple graphs. For inductive learning on multiple graphs PPI, we stack
three mean-pooling layer with skip connections, similar to DGI [ 18]. The graph convolutional
encoder can be formulated as
H1 =ˆMP1(X, A), (11)
H2 =ˆMP2(XWskip + H1, A), (12)
f (X, A) = H3 =ˆMP3(XW′
skip + H1 + H2, A), (13)
where Wskip and W′
skip are two projection matrices, andˆMPi is deﬁned in Eq. (9). Despite that the
PPI dataset consists of multiple graphs, we only compute negative samples for one anchor node as
other nodes within the same graph, due to efﬁciency considerations.
Baselines in both large graphs and multiple graphs settings are selected similarly to transductive tasks.
We consider (1) traditional methods DeepWalk4 [1], and (2) deep learning methods GraphSAGE
[10] and DGI [18]. Additionally, we report the performance of using raw features and DeepWalk +
features under the same settings as in transductive tasks. We further provide the performance of two
representative supervised methods, including FastGCN [37] and GaAN-mean [38] for reference. In
the table, results of baselines are reported in accordance with performance in their original papers.
For GraphSAGE, we reuse the unsupervised results for fair comparison.
4.3 Results and Analysis
The empirical performance is summarized in Table 1. Overall, from the table, we can see that our
proposed model shows strong performance across all six datasets. GRACE consistently performs
better than unsupervised baselines by considerable margins on both transductive and inductive tasks.
The strong performance veriﬁes the superiority of the proposed contrastive learning framework. We
4DeepWalk is not applicable to the multi-graph experiments, since the embedding spaces produced by
DeepWalk may be arbitrarily rotated with respect to different disjoint graphs [10].
7


--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 1: Summary of performance on node classiﬁcation in terms of accuracy in percentage (on
transductive tasks) or micro-averaged F1 score (on inductive tasks) with standard deviation. Available
data for each method during the training phase is shown in the second column, where X, A, Y
correspond to node features, the adjacency matrix, and labels respectively. The highest performance
of unsupervised models is highlighted in boldface.
(a) Transductive
Method Training Data Cora Citeseer Pubmed DBLP
Raw features X 64.8 64.6 84.8 71.6
node2vec A 74.8 52.3 80.3 78.8
DeepWalk A 75.7 50.5 80.5 75.9
DeepWalk + features X, A 73.1 47.6 83.7 78.1
GAE X, A 76.9 60.6 82.9 81.2
VGAE X, A 78.9 61.2 83.0 81.7
DGI X, A 82.6±0.4 68.8±0.7 86.0±0.1 83.2±0.1
GRACE X, A 83.3±0.4 72.1±0.5 86.7±0.1 84.2±0.1
SGC X, A, Y 80.6 69.1 84.8 81.7
GCN X, A, Y 82.8 72.0 84.9 82.7
(b) Inductive
Method Training Data Reddit PPI
Raw features X 58.5 42.2
DeepWalk A 32.4 —
DeepWalk + features X, A 69.1 —
GraphSAGE-GCN X, A 90.8 46.5
GraphSAGE-mean X, A 89.7 48.6
GraphSAGE-LSTM X, A 90.7 48.2
GraphSAGE-pool X, A 89.2 50.2
DGI X, A 94.0±0.1 63.8±0.2
GRACE X, A 94.2±0.0 66.2±0.1
FastGCN X, A, Y 93.7 —
GaAN-mean X, A, Y 95.8±0.1 96.9±0.2
particularly note that GRACE is competitive with models trained with label supervision on all four
transductive datasets and inductive dataset Reddit.
We make other observations as follows. Firstly, GRACE achieves considerable improvement over
another competitive contrastive learning method DGI on PPI. We believe that this is due to the
extreme sparsity of node features (over 40% nodes having all-zero features [10]), which emphasizes
the importance of considering topological information when choosing negative samples. For datasets
like PPI, extreme feature sparsity prevents DGI from discriminating samples in the original graph
from the corrupted graph, generated via shufﬂing node features, since shufﬂing node features makes
no effect for the contrastive objective. Contrarily, the RE scheme used in GRACE does not rely on
node features and acts as a remedy under such circumstances, which can explain the gain of GRACE
on PPI compared with DGI. Also, we note that there is still a huge gap between our method with
supervised models. These supervised models beneﬁt another merit from labels, which provide other
auxiliary information for model learning. Considering the sparse nature of real-world datasets, we
perform another experiment to verify that our method is robust to sparse node features (Appendix
C.4). Results show that by randomly removing node features, our still outperforms existing baselines.
Secondly, the performance of traditional contrastive learning methods like DeepWalk is inferior to the
naive classiﬁer that only uses raw features on some datasets (Citeseer, Pubmed, and Reddit), which
suggests that these methods may be ineffective in utilizing node features. Unlike traditional work, we
see that GCN-based methods, e.g., GraphSAGE and GAE, are capable of incorporating node features
when learning embeddings. However, we note that on certain datasets (Pubmed), their performance
8


--- PAGE 9 ---
is still worse than DeepWalk + feature, which we believe can be attributed to their naive method of
selecting negative samples that simply chooses contrastive pairs based on edges. This fact further
demonstrates the important role of selecting negative samples in contrastive representation learning.
The superior performance of GRACE compared to GAEs also once again veriﬁes the effectiveness of
our proposed GRACE framework that contrasts nodes across graph views.
Additionally, we perform sensitivity analysis on critical hyperparameters pr and pm (Appendix
C.1) as well as ablation studies on our hybrid scheme on generating graph views (Appendix C.2).
Results show that our method is stable to perturbation of these parameters and verify the necessity of
corruption at both graph topology and node feature levels. We also compare the classical InfoNCE
loss (Appendix C.3), verifying the efﬁcacy of our design choice. Details of these extra experiments
can be found in the supplementary material.
5 Conclusion
In this paper, we have developed a novel graph contrastive representation learning framework based
on maximizing the agreement at the node level. Our model learns representations by ﬁrst generating
graph views using two proposed schemes, removing edges and masking node features, and then
applying a contrastive loss to maximize the agreement of node embeddings in these two views.
Theoretical analysis reveals the connections from our contrastive objective to mutual information
maximization and the classical triplet loss, which justiﬁes our motivation. We have conducted
comprehensive experiments using various real-world datasets under transductive and inductive
settings. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method can consistently outperform
existing state-of-the-art methods by large margins and even surpass supervised counterparts on
transductive tasks.
Discussions on Broader Impact
Our proposed self-supervised graph representation learning techniques help alleviate the label scarcity
issue when deploying machine learning applications in real-world, which saves a lot of efforts on
human annotating. For example, our GRACE framework can be plugged into existing recommender
systems and produces high-quality embeddings for users and commodities to resolve the cold start
problem. Moreover, from the empirical results, our work outperforms existing baselines on protein
function prediction by signiﬁcant margins, which demonstrate its great potential in drug discovery
and treatment, given the COVID-19 crisis at this critical juncture. Note that our work mainly serves
as a plug-in for existing machine learning models, it does not bring new ethical concerns. However,
the GRACE model may still give biased outputs (e.g., gender bias, ethnicity bias), as the provided
data itself may be strongly biased during the processes of the data collection, graph construction, etc.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Tao Sun and Sirui Lu for insightful discussions. This work
is jointly supported by National Key Research and Development Program (2018YFB1402600,
2016YFB1001000) and National Natural Science Foundation of China (U19B2038, 61772528).
9


--- PAGE 10 ---
A Dataset Details
Transductive learning. We utilize four widely-used citation networks, Cora, Citeseer, Pubmed,
and DBLP, for predicting article subject categories. In these datasets, graphs are constructed from
computer science article citation links. Speciﬁcally, nodes correspond to articles and undirected
edges to citation links between articles. Furthermore, each node has a sparse bag-of-words feature
and a corresponding label of article types. The former three networks are provided by [33, 39] and
the latter DBLP dataset is provided by [34]. On these citation networks, we randomly select 10% of
the nodes as the training set, 10% nodes as the validation set, and leave the rest nodes as the test set.
Inductive learning on large graphs. We then predict community structures of a large-scale social
network, collected from Reddit. The dataset, preprocessed by [ 10], contains Reddit posts created
in September 2014, where posts belong to different communities (subreddit). In the dataset, nodes
correspond to posts, and edges connect posts if the same user has commented on both. Node features
are constructed from post title, content, and comments, using off-the-shelf GloVe word embeddings
[40], along with other metrics such as post score and the number of comments. Following the
inductive setting of [10, 18], on the Reddit dataset, we choose posts in the ﬁrst 20 days for training,
including 151,708 nodes, and the remaining for testing (with 30% data including 23,699 nodes for
validation).
Inductive learning on multiple graphs. Last, we predict protein roles, in terms of their cellular
functions from gene ontology, within the protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks [35] to evaluate
the generalization ability of the proposed method across multiple graphs. The PPI dataset contains
multiple graphs, with each corresponding to a human tissue. The graphs are constructed by [ 10],
where each node has multiple labels that is a subset of gene ontology sets (121 in total), and node
features include positional gene sets, motif gene sets, and immunological signatures (50 in total).
Following [10], we select twenty graphs consisting of 44,906 nodes as the training set, two graphs
containing 6,514 nodes as the validation, and the rest four graphs containing 12,038 nodes as the test
set.
The statistics of datasets are summarized in Table 2; download links are included in Table 3. For
transductive tasks, similar to [6], during the training phase, all node features are visible but node labels
are masked. In the inductive setting, we closely follow [10]; during training, nodes for evaluation are
completely invisible; evaluation is then conducted on unseen or untrained nodes and graphs.
Table 2: Statistics of datasets used in experiments.
Dataset Type #Nodes #Edges #Features #Classes
Cora Transductive 2,708 5,429 1,433 7
Citeseer Transductive 3,327 4,732 3,703 6
Pubmed Transductive 19,717 44,338 500 3
DBLP Transductive 17,716 105,734 1,639 4
Reddit Inductive 231,443 11,606,919 602 41
PPI Inductive 56,944
(24 graphs) 818,716 50 121
(multilabel)
Table 3: Dataset download links.
Dataset Download link
Cora https://github.com/kimiyoung/planetoid/raw/master/data
Citeseer https://github.com/kimiyoung/planetoid/raw/master/data
Pubmed https://github.com/kimiyoung/planetoid/raw/master/data
DBLP https://github.com/abojchevski/graph2gauss/raw/master/data/dblp.npz
Reddit https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/dgl.ai/dataset/reddit.zip
PPI https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/dgl.ai/dataset/ppi.zip
10


--- PAGE 11 ---
B Implementation
Computing infrastructures. All models are implemented using PyTorch Geometric 1.5.0 [41] and
PyTorch 1.4.0 [42]. All datasets used throughout experiments are available in PyTorch Geometric
libraries. For node classiﬁcation, we use the existing implementation of logistic regression withℓ2
regularization from Scikit-learn [43]. All experiments are conducted on a computer server with eight
NVIDIA Titan Xp GPUs (12GB memory each) and fourteen Intel Xeon E5-2660 v4 CPUs.
Hyperparameters. All models are initialized with Glorot initialization [ 44], and trained using
Adam SGD optimizer [45] on all datasets. The initial learning rate is set to 0.001 with an exception
to 0.0005 on Cora and 10−5 on Reddit. Theℓ2 weight decay factor is set to 10−5 on all datasets. On
both transductive and inductive tasks, we train the model for a ﬁxed number of epochs, speciﬁcally
200, 200, 1500, 1000 epochs for Cora, Citeseer, Pubmed and DBLP, respectively, 40 for Reddit and
200 for PPI. The probability parameters controlling the sampling process,pr,1,pm,1 for the ﬁrst view
andpr,2,pm,2 for the second view, are all selected between 0.0 and 0.4, since the original graph will
be overly corrupted when the probability is set too large. Note that to generate different contexts for
nodes in the two views,pr,1 andpr,2 should be distinct, and the same holds forpm,1 andpm,2. All
dataset-speciﬁc hyperparameters are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: Hypeparameter speciﬁcations.
Dataset pm,1 pm,2 pr,1 pr,2
Learning
rate
Weight
decay
Training
epochs
Hidden
dimension
Activation
function
Cora 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.005 10−5 200 128 ReLU
Citeseer 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.001 10−5 200 256 PReLU
Pubmed 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.001 10−5 1,500 256 ReLU
DBLP 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.4 0.001 10−5 1,000 256 ReLU
Reddit 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.00001 10−5 40 512 ELU
PPI 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.4 0.001 10−5 500 512 RReLU
C Additional Experiments
C.1 Sensitivity Analysis
In this section, we perform sensitivity analysis on critical hyperparameters in GRACE, namely four
probabilitiespm,1,pr,1,pm,2,pr,2 that determine the generation of graph views to show the model
stability under the perturbation of these hyperparameters. We conduct trasductive node classiﬁcation
by varying these parameters from 0.1 to 0.9. For sake of visualization brevity, we setp1 =pr,1 =pm,1
p1
0.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.9
p2
0.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.9
Micro-F1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Figure 2: The performance of GRACE with varying different hyperparameters in transductive node
classiﬁcation on the Citeseer dataset in terms of Micro-F1.
11


--- PAGE 12 ---
andp2 =pr,2 =pm,2. In other words,p1 andp2 control the generation of the two graph views. Note
that we only change these four parameters in the sensitivity analysis, other parameters remain the
same as previously described.
The results on the Citeseer dataset is shown are Figure 2. From the ﬁgure, it can be observed that
the performance of node classiﬁcation in terms of Micro-F1 is relatively stable when the parameters
are not too large, as shown in the plateau in the ﬁgure. We thus conclude that overall, our model
is insensitive to these probabilities, demonstrating the robustness to hyperparameter tuning. If the
probability is set too large (e.g.,> 0.5), the original graph will be heavily undermined. For example,
when pr = 0.9, almost every existing edge has been removed, leading to isolated nodes in the
generated graph views. Then, under such circumstance, the graph convolutional network is hard to
learn useful information from node neighborhoods. Therefore, the learnt node embeddings in the two
graph views are not distinctive enough, which will result in difﬁculty of optimizing the contrastive
objective.
C.2 Ablation Studies
In this section, we perform ablation studies on the two schemes for generating graph views, removing
edge (RE) and masking node features (MF), to verify the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid scheme.
We denote GRACE (–RE) as the model without removing edges and GRACE (–MF) as the model
without masking node features. We report the performance of GRACE (–RE), GRACE (–MF) and the
original model GRACE on transductive node classiﬁcation under the identical settings as previous,
except for different enabled schemes. The results are presented in Table 5.
It is seen that our hybrid approach that jointly applies RE and MF signiﬁcantly outperform two down-
graded models that only use one standalone method RE or MF. These results verify the effectiveness
of our proposed scheme for graph corruption, and further show the necessity of jointly considering
corruption at both graph topology and node feature levels.
Table 5: The performance of model variants along with the original GRACE model in the ablation
study in terms of accuracy of node classiﬁcation. GRACE (–RE) and GRACE (–MF) denote the
model without removing edges and masking node features respectively.
Method Cora Citeseer Pubmed DBLP
GRACE 83.2±0.5 72.1±0.5 86.7±0.1 84.2±0.1
GRACE (–RE) 82.3 ±0.4 72.0±0.4 84.8±0.2 83.6±0.2
GRACE (–MF) 81.6 ±0.4 69.9±0.6 85.7±0.1 83.5±0.1
C.3 Comparison with InfoNCE Loss
In this section, we consider another widely-used objective, the InfoNCE loss [ 23] , in contrastive
methods. For fair comparison, we measure the node similarities between two graph views using the
InfoNCE objective, which is deﬁned as
JNCE = 1
2 [ℓNCE(V, U ) +ℓNCE(V, U )], (14)
where the pairwise objective is deﬁned byℓNCE(U, V ) ≜ 1
N
∑N
i=1 log eθ(ui,vi )
1
N
∑N
j=1eθ(ui,vj ) .ℓNCE(V, U )
can be deﬁned symmetrically. The modiﬁed model is denoted as GRACE–NCE hereafter. We report
the performance of GRACE–NCE on transductive node classiﬁcation under identical settings as with
the original model GRACE. The results are summarized in Table 6.
From the table, we can clearly see that the performance of the variant model GRACE-NCE is inferior
to that of the original model GRACE on all four datasets. The results empirically demonstrate that,
although InfoNCE is a stricter estimator of the mutual information, our objective is more effective
and shows better downstream performance, which is consistent with previous observations in visual
representation learning [26]. We believe that the superior performance of our objective compared to
InfoNCE can be attributed to the inclusion of more negative samples. Speciﬁcally, we take intra-view
negative pairs into consideration in our objective, which can be viewed as a regularization against the
smoothing problem brought by graph convolution operators.
12


--- PAGE 13 ---
Table 6: The performance of GRACE and GRACE–NCE in transductive node classiﬁcation on four
citation datasets.
Method Cora Citeseer Pubmed DBLP
GRACE 83.2±0.5 72.1±0.5 86.7±0.1 84.2±0.1
GRACE–NCE 82.1 ±0.4 70.9±0.6 85.0±0.1 82.1±0.1
C.4 Robustness to Sparse Features
As discussed before, for existing work DGI, it is relatively easy to generate negative samples for
nodes having dense features using the feature shufﬂing scheme. However, when node features are
sparse, feature shufﬂing may not be sufﬁcient to generate different neighborhoods for nodes, which
motivates our hybrid scheme that corrupts the original graph at both topology and attribute levels.
In this section, we conduct experiments with randomly contaminating the training data by masking a
certain portion of the node features to zeros. Speciﬁcally, we vary the contamination rate of node
features from 0.5 to 0.9 on four citation networks. We conduct experiments on transductive node
classiﬁcation with all other parameters being the same as previously described. The performance in
terms of accuracy is plotted in Figure 3.
From the ﬁgures, we can see that GRACE consistently outperforms DGI with large margins under
different contamination rates, demonstrating the robustness of our proposed GRACE model to sparse
features. We attribute the robustness of GRACE to the superiority of our proposed RE method for
graph corruption at topology level, since RE is capable of constructing different topology context
for nodes without dependence on node features. These results once again verify the necessity of
considering graph corruption at both topology and attribute levels. Note that, when a large portion
of node features are masked, e.g., 90% features are masked, both GRACE and DGI perform poorly.
This may be explained from the fact that, when the node features are overly contaminated, nodes
are highly sparse such that the GNN model is ineffective to extract useful information from nodes,
leading to performance deterioration.
50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
40.0%
60.0%
80.0%
GRACE
DGI
(a) Cora
50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
30.0%
40.0%
50.0%
60.0%
70.0%
GRACE
DGI (b) Citeseer
50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
50.0%
60.0%
70.0%
80.0%
GRACE
DGI (c) Pubmed
50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
50.0%
60.0%
70.0%
80.0%
GRACE
DGI (d) DBLP
Figure 3: The performance of GRACE and DGI in transductive node classiﬁcation in terms of
Micro-F1 on four citation datasets with a portion of node features masked under different masking
rates.
D Detailed Proofs
D.1 Proof of Theorem 1
Theorem 1. Let Xi ={xk}k∈N (i) be the neighborhood of node vi that collectively maps to its
output embedding, whereN (i) denotes the set of neighbors of nodevi speciﬁed by GNN architectures,
and X be the corresponding random variable with a uniform distributionp(Xi) = 1
N . Given two
random variables U, V∈ RF ′
being the embedding in the two views, with their joint distribution
denoted asp(U, V), our objectiveJ is a lower bound of MI between encoder input X and node
representations in two graph views U, V. Formally,
J≤ I(X; U, V). (15)
13


--- PAGE 14 ---
Proof. We ﬁrst show the connection between our objectiveJ and the InfoNCE objective [23] , which
can be deﬁned as [25]
INCE(U; V) ≜ E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
N∑
i=1
log eθ(ui,vi)
1
N
∑N
j=1eθ(ui,vj )
]
,
where the critic function is deﬁned as θ(x, y) = s(g(x),g (y)). We further deﬁne ρr(ui) =∑N
j=1 1[i̸=j] exp(θ(ui, uj)/τ ), ρc(ui) = ∑N
j=1 exp(θ(ui, vj)/τ ) for convenience of notation.
Note thatρr(vi) andρc(vi) can be deﬁned symmetrically. Then, our objectiveJ can be rewritten as
J = E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
N∑
i=1
log exp(θ(ui, vi)/τ )√
(ρc(ui) +ρr(ui)) (ρc(vi) +ρr(vi))
]
. (16)
Using the notation ofρc, the InfoNCE estimatorINCE can be written as
INCE(U, V) = E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
N∑
i=1
log exp(θ(ui, vi)/τ )
ρc(ui)
]
. (17)
Therefore,
2J =INCE(U, V)− E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
N∑
i=1
log
(
1 + ρr(ui)
ρc(ui)
)]
+INCE(V, U)− E∏
ip(ui,vi)
[
1
N
N∑
i=1
log
(
1 + ρr(vi)
ρc(vi)
)]
≤INCE(U, V) +INCE(V, U).
(18)
According to [25], the InfoNCE estimator is a lower bound of the true MI, i.e.
INCE(U, V)≤I(U; V). (19)
Thus, we arrive at
2J≤ I(U; V) +I(V; U) = 2I(U; V), (20)
which leads to the inequality
J≤ I(U; V). (21)
According to the data processing inequality, which states that, for all random variables X, Y, Z
satisfying the Markov relation X→ Y→ Z, the inequality I(X; Z)≤ I(X; Y) holds. Then,
we observe that X, U, V satisfy the relation U← X→ V. Since, U and V are conditionally
independent after observing X, the relation is Markov equivalent to U→ X→ V, which leads to
I(U; V)≤ I(U; X). We further notice that the relation X→ (U, V)→ U holds, and hence it
follows thatI(X; U)≤I(X; U, V). Combining the two inequalities yields the required inequality
I(U; V)≤I(X; U, V). (22)
Following Eq. (21) and Eq. (22), we ﬁnally arrive at inequality
J≤ I(X; U, V), (23)
which concludes the proof.
D.2 Proof of Theorem 2
Theorem 2. When the projection function g is the identity function and we measure embedding
similarity by simply taking inner product, i.e. s(u, v) = u⊤v, and further assuming that positive
pairs are far more aligned than negative pairs, minimizing the pairwise objectiveℓ(ui, vi) coincides
with maximizing the triplet loss, as given in the sequel
−ℓ(ui, vi)∝ 4Nτ +
N∑
j=1
1[j̸=i]
[(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− vj∥2)
+
(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− uj∥2)]
.
(24)
14


--- PAGE 15 ---
Proof. Based on the assumptions, we can rearrange the pairwise objective as
−ℓ(ui, vi) =− log exp
(
u⊤
i vi/τ
)
∑N
k=1 exp
(
u⊤
i vk/τ
)
+∑N
k=1 1[k̸=i] exp
(
u⊤
i uk/τ
)
= log
(
1 +
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i] exp
( u⊤
i vk− u⊤
i vi
τ
)
+
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i] exp
( u⊤
i uk− u⊤
i vi
τ
))
.
(25)
By Taylor expansion of ﬁrst order,
−ℓ(ui, vi)≈
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i] exp
( u⊤
i vk− u⊤
i vi
τ
)
+
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i] exp
( u⊤
i uk− u⊤
i vi
τ
)
≈ 2 + 1
τ
[ N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i](u⊤
i vk− u⊤
i vi) +
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i](u⊤
i uk− u⊤
i vi)
]
= 2− 1
2τ
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i]
[(
∥ui− vk∥2−∥ ui− vi∥2)
+
(
∥ui− uk∥2−∥ ui− vi∥2)]
∝ 4Nτ +
N∑
k=1
1[k̸=i]
[(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− vk∥2)
+
(
∥ui− vi∥2−∥ ui− uk∥2)]
,
(26)
which concludes the proof.
References
[1] Bryan Perozzi, Rami Al-Rfou, and Steven Skiena. DeepWalk: Online Learning of Social Representations.
In KDD, 2014.
[2] Aditya Grover and Jure Leskovec. node2vec: Scalable Feature Learning for Networks. In KDD, 2016.
[3] Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg S. Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. Distributed Representations
of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality. In NIPS, 2013.
[4] Jiezhong Qiu, Yuxiao Dong, Hao Ma, Jian Li, Kuansan Wang, and Jie Tang. Network Embedding as
Matrix Factorization: Unifying DeepWalk, LINE, PTE, and node2vec. In WSDM, 2018.
[5] Leonardo Filipe Rodrigues Ribeiro, Pedro H. P. Saverese, and Daniel R. Figueiredo. struc2vec: Learning
Node Representations from Structural Identity. In KDD, 2017.
[6] Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. Semi-Supervised Classiﬁcation with Graph Convolutional Networks.
In ICLR, 2017.
[7] Petar Veliˇckovi´c, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Liò, and Yoshua Bengio.
Graph Attention Networks. In ICLR, 2018.
[8] Fenyu Hu, Yanqiao Zhu, Shu Wu, Liang Wang, and Tieniu Tan. Hierarchical Graph Convolutional
Networks for Semi-supervised Node Classiﬁcation. In IJCAI, 2019.
[9] Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. Variational Graph Auto-Encoders. In BDL@NIPS, 2016.
[10] William L. Hamilton, Zhitao Ying, and Jure Leskovec. Inductive Representation Learning on Large Graphs.
In NIPS, 2017.
[11] Ralph Linsker. Self-Organization in a Perceptual Network. IEEE Computer, 1988.
[12] Zhirong Wu, Yuanjun Xiong, Stella X. Yu, and Dahua Lin. Unsupervised Feature Learning via Non-
Parametric Instance Discrimination. In CVPR, 2018.
[13] Yonglong Tian, Dilip Krishnan, and Phillip Isola. Contrastive Multiview Coding. arXiv.org, June 2019.
[14] Kaiming He, Haoqi Fan, Yuxin Wu, Saining Xie, and Ross Girshick. Momentum Contrast for Unsupervised
Visual Representation Learning. In CVPR, 2020.
15


--- PAGE 16 ---
[15] Philip Bachman, R. Devon Hjelm, and William Buchwalter. Learning Representations by Maximizing
Mutual Information Across Views. In NeurIPS, 2019.
[16] Mang Ye, Xu Zhang, Pong C. Yuen, and Shih-Fu Chang. Unsupervised Embedding Learning via Invariant
and Spreading Instance Feature. In CVPR, 2019.
[17] Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and Geoffrey Hinton. A Simple Framework for
Contrastive Learning of Visual Representations. arXiv.org, February 2020.
[18] Petar Veliˇckovi´c, William Fedus, William L. Hamilton, Pietro Liò, Yoshua Bengio, and R. Devon Hjelm.
Deep Graph Infomax. In ICLR, 2019.
[19] Suzanna Becker and Geoffrey E. Hinton. Self-Organizing Neural Network That Discovers Surfaces in
Random-Dot Stereograms. Nature, 355(6356), 1992.
[20] Spyros Gidaris, Praveer Singh, and Nikos Komodakis. Unsupervised Representation Learning by Predicting
Image Rotations. In ICLR, 2018.
[21] Gustav Larsson, Michael Maire, and Gregory Shakhnarovich. Colorization as a Proxy Task for Visual
Understanding. In CVPR, 2017.
[22] R. Devon Hjelm, Alex Fedorov, Samuel Lavoie-Marchildon, Karan Grewal, Philip Bachman, Adam
Trischler, and Yoshua Bengio. Learning Deep Representations by Mutual Information Estimation and
Maximization. In ICLR, 2019.
[23] Aäron van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol Vinyals. Representation Learning with Contrastive Predictive
Coding. arXiv.org, 2018.
[24] Olivier J. Hénaff, Aravind Srinivas, Jeffrey De Fauw, Ali Razavi, Carl Doersch, S. M. Ali Eslami, and
Aaron van den Oord. Data-Efﬁcient Image Recognition with Contrastive Predictive Coding. arXiv.org,
May 2019.
[25] Ben Poole, Sherjil Ozair, Aäron van den Oord, Alexander A. Alemi, and George Tucker. On Variational
Bounds of Mutual Information. In ICML, 2019.
[26] Michael Tschannen, Josip Djolonga, Paul K. Rubenstein, Sylvain Gelly, and Mario Lucic. On Mutual
Information Maximization for Representation Learning. In ICLR, 2020.
[27] William L. Hamilton, Rex Ying, and Jure Leskovec. Representation Learning on Graphs: Methods and
Applications. IEEE Data Eng. Bull., 2017.
[28] Michael Gutmann and Aapo Hyvärinen. Noise-Contrastive Estimation of Unnormalized Statistical Models,
with Applications to Natural Image Statistics. JMLR, 2012.
[29] Felix Wu, Tianyi Zhang, Amauri Holanda de Souza Jr., Christopher Fifty, Tao Yu, and Kilian Q. Weinberger.
Simplifying Graph Convolutional Networks. In ICML, 2019.
[30] Nitish Srivastava, Geoffrey E. Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan R. Salakhutdinov.
Dropout: A Simple Way to Prevent Neural Networks From Overﬁtting. JMLR, 15(1), 2014.
[31] Yu Rong, Wenbing Huang, Tingyang Xu, and Junzhou Huang. DropEdge: Towards Deep Graph Convolu-
tional Networks on Node Classiﬁcation. In ICLR, 2020.
[32] Florian Schroff, Dmitry Kalenichenko, and James Philbin. FaceNet: A Uniﬁed Embedding for Face
Recognition and Clustering. In CVPR, 2015.
[33] Prithviraj Sen, Galileo Namata, Mustafa Bilgic, Lise Getoor, Brian Gallagher, and Tina Eliassi-Rad.
Collective Classiﬁcation in Network Data. AI Magazine, 2008.
[34] Aleksandar Bojchevski and Stephan Günnemann. Deep Gaussian Embedding of Graphs: Unsupervised
Inductive Learning via Ranking. In ICLR, 2018.
[35] Marinka Zitnik and Jure Leskovec. Predicting Multicellular Function Through Multi-layer Tissue Networks.
Bioinform., 2017.
[36] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition.
In CVPR, 2016.
[37] Jie Chen, Tengfei Ma, and Cao Xiao. FastGCN: Fast Learning with Graph Convolutional Networks via
Importance Sampling. In ICLR, 2018.
16


--- PAGE 17 ---
[38] Jiani Zhang, Xingjian Shi, Junyuan Xie, Hao Ma, Irwin King, and Dit-Yan Yeung. GaAN: Gated Attention
Networks for Learning on Large and Spatiotemporal Graphs. In UAI, 2018.
[39] Zhilin Yang, William W. Cohen, and Ruslan R. Salakhutdinov. Revisiting Semi-Supervised Learning with
Graph Embeddings. In ICML, 2016.
[40] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D. Manning. GloVe: Global Vectors for Word
Representation. In EMNLP, 2014.
[41] Matthias Fey and Jan Eric Lenssen. Fast Graph Representation Learning with PyTorch Geometric. In
RLGM@ICLR, 2019.
[42] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor
Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang,
Zachary DeVito, Martin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie
Bai, and Soumith Chintala. PyTorch: An Imperative Style, High-Performance Deep Learning Library. In
NeurIPS, 2019.
[43] Fabian Pedregosa, Gaël Varoquaux, Alexandre Gramfort, Vincent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier Grisel,
Mathieu Blondel, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vincent Dubourg, Jake VanderPlas, Alexandre Passos,
David Cournapeau, Matthieu Brucher, Matthieu Perrot, and Edouard Duchesnay. Scikit-learn: Machine
Learning in Python. JMLR, 2011.
[44] Xavier Glorot and Yoshua Bengio. Understanding the Difﬁculty of Training Deep Feedforward Neural
Networks. In AISTATS, 2010.
[45] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. In ICLR, 2015.
17